README.md, before:

# fullscreen-clock

Fullscreen clock using the FLTK toolkit.

 * Clock (use NTP on the system).
 * Open Weather Map integration.

# Dependencies

## Client

 * X11
 * FLTK
 * json-c
 * libcurl

## Server
 * Flask
 * Flask-restplus
 * Request

# Design

## Front end (client)

The front end is a C++ application using the FLTK ui toolkit and curl. The UI
shows time, and two smaller lines for custom messages.

The time field uses the system time. The messages fields retrieved from the
server using a RESTful interface.

# Lightweight FreeBSD installation

Install git for cloning this repository:

    $ pkg install git

Optionally install nano if you do not know how to quit vi:

    $ pkg install nano

Install build and runtime dependencies

    $ pkg install xorg-minimal fltk json-c pkgconf urwfonts xset

## Building the clock

Get the source from github:

    git clone https://github.com/deadbok/fullscreen-clock

Go there:

    cd fullscreen-clock

Build it:

    make

The output should look something like this:

    $ make
    make -C src -f BSDmakefile all
    c++ -I/usr/local/include -I/usr/local/include/freetype2 -O2 -pipe -fstack-protector -isystem /usr/local/include -fno-strict-aliasing -isystem /usr/local/include -fvisibility-inlines-hidden -I/usr/local/include -D_LARGEFILE_SOURCE -D_LARGEFILE64_SOURCE -D_THREAD_SAFE -D_REENTRANT -I/usr/local/include -I/usr/local/include/json-c  -Wall -I. -I..  -std=c++11 -c app.cpp -o  app.o
    c++ -I/usr/local/include -I/usr/local/include/freetype2 -O2 -pipe -fstack-protector -isystem /usr/local/include -fno-strict-aliasing -isystem /usr/local/include -fvisibility-inlines-hidden -I/usr/local/include -D_LARGEFILE_SOURCE -D_LARGEFILE64_SOURCE -D_THREAD_SAFE -D_REENTRANT -I/usr/local/include -I/usr/local/include/json-c  -Wall -I. -I..  -std=c++11 -c config.cpp -o  config.o
    c++ -I/usr/local/include -I/usr/local/include/freetype2 -O2 -pipe -fstack-protector -isystem /usr/local/include -fno-strict-aliasing -isystem /usr/local/include -fvisibility-inlines-hidden -I/usr/local/include -D_LARGEFILE_SOURCE -D_LARGEFILE64_SOURCE -D_THREAD_SAFE -D_REENTRANT -I/usr/local/include -I/usr/local/include/json-c  -Wall -I. -I..  -std=c++11 -c main.cpp -o  main.o
    c++ -I/usr/local/include -I/usr/local/include/freetype2 -O2 -pipe -fstack-protector -isystem /usr/local/include -fno-strict-aliasing -isystem /usr/local/include -fvisibility-inlines-hidden -I/usr/local/include -D_LARGEFILE_SOURCE -D_LARGEFILE64_SOURCE -D_THREAD_SAFE -D_REENTRANT -I/usr/local/include -I/usr/local/include/json-c  -Wall -I. -I..  -std=c++11 -c owm.cpp -o  owm.o
    c++ app.o config.o main.o owm.o -L/usr/local/lib -lm -Wl,-rpath,/usr/local/lib -fstack-protector -lfltk_images -lpng -lz -ljpeg -lfltk -lXcursor -lXfixes -lXext -lXft -lfontconfig -lXinerama -lpthread -lm -lX11 -L/usr/local/lib -lcurl -L/usr/local/lib -ljson-c  -o ../clock
    echo "Compiling for FreeBSD done."
    Compiling for FreeBSD done.

Create the `.clockrc` configuration file in your home directory. An easy way is
copying the included example and editing it afterwards.

    $ cp clockrc.example ~/.clockrc
    $ nano ~/.clockrc

## EeePC 701 specifics

Install the xorg driver fot the Intel 915GM graphics:

    pkg install xf86-video-intel

## Kiosk mode

To have the system boot into X and start the clock automatically, X is told to
start the clock on start. The default shell is told to start X on login. Lastly
auto login is enabled for the desired user.

### X

Edit the `sh` startup script:

    nano ~/.shrc

and add the following at the end:

    XPID=`/usr/bin/pgrep xinit`
    if [ -z "$XPID" ]
    then
      startx
      logout
    fi

This will start X, on login, if not running. To make the default X session
start the clock create a file `~/.xinitrc` with this content:

    #!/bin/sh

    xset dpms 0 0 0 &
    #xset -dpms &
    exec ./fullscreen-clock/clock

Where `./fullscreen-clock/clock` is the path to the clock executable.
The xset lines disables screensaver blanking and power saving in X, but all is
not well yet edit `/etc/rc.conf`:

    nano /etc/rc.conf

and add the following lines:

    saver="NO"
    blanktime="NO"

### Auto login

Edit `/etc/gettytab`:

    nano /etc/gettytab

and add the following lines:

    # Autologin console as user "user"
    A|Al|Autologin console:\
        :ht:np:sp#115200:al=user

Replace `user` in the last line with the desired user.

Edit `/etc/ttys`:

    nano /etc/ttys

Replace the line:

    ttyv0   "/usr/libexec/getty Pc"         xterm   on  secure

With the line:

    ttyv0   "/usr/libexec/getty Al"         xterm   on  secure

### Boot splash

*This has not worked, and is left as a puzzle to the reader.*

/etc/rc.conf
    beastie_disable="YES"



/boot/loader.conf
vesa_load="YES"
splash_bmp_load="YES"
bitmap_load="YES"
bitmap_name="/boot/splash.bmp"

boot_mute="YES"

"-mnq" to /boot.config.

Commit message:

Update root README with some server information

README.md, after:

# fullscreen-clock

Fullscreen clock using the FLTK toolkit.

 * Clock (use NTP on the system).
 * Open Weather Map integration.

# Dependencies

## Client

 * X11
 * FLTK
 * json-c
 * libcurl

## Server

 * Flask
 * Flask-restplus
 * Request

# Design

## Front end (client)

The front end is a C++ application using the FLTK ui toolkit and curl. The UI
shows time on the top half of the window, and two lines of custom messages on
the lower half.

    |-----------------|
    |                 |
    |      22:00      |
    |                 |
    |-----------------|
    | Message line 1  |
    |-----------------|
    | Message line 2  |
    |-----------------|
 
The time field uses the system time. The messages fields retrieved from the
server using a RESTful interface.

## Server

The server is a Python application using the flask framework. The server is
extendable through plugins, and can recieve message and icon URLs using a
RESTful interface.

# Lightweight FreeBSD installation

Install git for cloning this repository:

    $ pkg install git

Optionally install nano if you do not know how to quit vi:

    $ pkg install nano

Install build and runtime dependencies

    $ pkg install xorg-minimal fltk json-c pkgconf urwfonts xset

## Building the clock

Get the source from github:

    git clone https://github.com/deadbok/fullscreen-clock

Go there:

    cd fullscreen-clock

Build it:

    make

The output should look something like this:

    $ make
    make -C src -f BSDmakefile all
    c++ -I/usr/local/include -I/usr/local/include/freetype2 -O2 -pipe -fstack-protector -isystem /usr/local/include -fno-strict-aliasing -isystem /usr/local/include -fvisibility-inlines-hidden -I/usr/local/include -D_LARGEFILE_SOURCE -D_LARGEFILE64_SOURCE -D_THREAD_SAFE -D_REENTRANT -I/usr/local/include -I/usr/local/include/json-c  -Wall -I. -I..  -std=c++11 -c app.cpp -o  app.o
    c++ -I/usr/local/include -I/usr/local/include/freetype2 -O2 -pipe -fstack-protector -isystem /usr/local/include -fno-strict-aliasing -isystem /usr/local/include -fvisibility-inlines-hidden -I/usr/local/include -D_LARGEFILE_SOURCE -D_LARGEFILE64_SOURCE -D_THREAD_SAFE -D_REENTRANT -I/usr/local/include -I/usr/local/include/json-c  -Wall -I. -I..  -std=c++11 -c config.cpp -o  config.o
    c++ -I/usr/local/include -I/usr/local/include/freetype2 -O2 -pipe -fstack-protector -isystem /usr/local/include -fno-strict-aliasing -isystem /usr/local/include -fvisibility-inlines-hidden -I/usr/local/include -D_LARGEFILE_SOURCE -D_LARGEFILE64_SOURCE -D_THREAD_SAFE -D_REENTRANT -I/usr/local/include -I/usr/local/include/json-c  -Wall -I. -I..  -std=c++11 -c main.cpp -o  main.o
    c++ -I/usr/local/include -I/usr/local/include/freetype2 -O2 -pipe -fstack-protector -isystem /usr/local/include -fno-strict-aliasing -isystem /usr/local/include -fvisibility-inlines-hidden -I/usr/local/include -D_LARGEFILE_SOURCE -D_LARGEFILE64_SOURCE -D_THREAD_SAFE -D_REENTRANT -I/usr/local/include -I/usr/local/include/json-c  -Wall -I. -I..  -std=c++11 -c owm.cpp -o  owm.o
    c++ app.o config.o main.o owm.o -L/usr/local/lib -lm -Wl,-rpath,/usr/local/lib -fstack-protector -lfltk_images -lpng -lz -ljpeg -lfltk -lXcursor -lXfixes -lXext -lXft -lfontconfig -lXinerama -lpthread -lm -lX11 -L/usr/local/lib -lcurl -L/usr/local/lib -ljson-c  -o ../clock
    echo "Compiling for FreeBSD done."
    Compiling for FreeBSD done.

Create the `.clockrc` configuration file in your home directory. An easy way is
copying the included example and editing it afterwards.

    $ cp clockrc.example ~/.clockrc
    $ nano ~/.clockrc

## EeePC 701 specifics

Install the xorg driver fot the Intel 915GM graphics:

    pkg install xf86-video-intel

## Kiosk mode

To have the system boot into X and start the clock automatically, X is told to
start the clock on start. The default shell is told to start X on login. Lastly
auto login is enabled for the desired user.

### X

Edit the `sh` startup script:

    nano ~/.shrc

and add the following at the end:

    XPID=`/usr/bin/pgrep xinit`
    if [ -z "$XPID" ]
    then
      startx
      logout
    fi

This will start X, on login, if not running. To make the default X session
start the clock create a file `~/.xinitrc` with this content:

    #!/bin/sh

    xset dpms 0 0 0 &
    #xset -dpms &
    exec ./fullscreen-clock/clock

Where `./fullscreen-clock/clock` is the path to the clock executable.
The xset lines disables screensaver blanking and power saving in X, but all is
not well yet edit `/etc/rc.conf`:

    nano /etc/rc.conf

and add the following lines:

    saver="NO"
    blanktime="NO"

### Auto login

Edit `/etc/gettytab`:

    nano /etc/gettytab

and add the following lines:

    # Autologin console as user "user"
    A|Al|Autologin console:\
        :ht:np:sp#115200:al=user

Replace `user` in the last line with the desired user.

Edit `/etc/ttys`:

    nano /etc/ttys

Replace the line:

    ttyv0   "/usr/libexec/getty Pc"         xterm   on  secure

With the line:

    ttyv0   "/usr/libexec/getty Al"         xterm   on  secure

### Boot splash

*This has not worked, and is left as a puzzle to the reader.*

/etc/rc.conf
    beastie_disable="YES"



/boot/loader.conf
vesa_load="YES"
splash_bmp_load="YES"
bitmap_load="YES"
bitmap_name="/boot/splash.bmp"

boot_mute="YES"

"-mnq" to /boot.config.
